Hi, I'm Taylor Ordines. I am a physicist working on the interplay between *Artificial Intelligence* and *Physics*.
I am interested in the question of how can AI systems, like neural networks, and physical formalisms, like quantum and group field theory, be used together to facilitate deeper understanding of complex ideas.
Specifically, I study
- **Symmetry group applications to neural networks** &ndash; neural network architectures with known symmetries leverage internal implementations to produce phenomenal predictive outputs. For example, *Convolutional Neural Networks* make use of translational symmetries, such as recognizing distinct patterns in images regardless of their position in the frame, to great effect in image recognition tasks. Other architectures might similarly make use of symmetries in their design to create more robust, less costly systems.
- **Quantum field theories for neural networks** &ndash; the QFT-NN correspondance describes neural networks in terms of effective field theories, allowing us to leverage the multitude of tools developed over the last century in the study of neural network architectures. Neural networks typically work as "black boxes," and we are unable to readily understand their training and how they actually operate apart from basic trial-and-error practice. Instead, we can model neural networks using the tools of effective quantum field theory, which is able to extract long-range, relevant features from a large set of microscopic constituents. This allows us to understand otherrwise difficult, if not impossible, to understand details about specific neural network architectures.
- **Group field theories for neural networks** &ndash; augmenting quantum field theories with group-theoretic data describing internal symmetries of a system gives rise to group field theory: rather than the quantum field being defined on the usual spacetime structure, the field is defined over some *group manifold*. This allows us to combine the ideas of the previous two points into a conveniently structured description. We can then insert the intuitions from physical symmetries while simultaneously leveraging the tools of modelling neural networks with quantum fields.


The repositories you can find on my profile are a small selection of my portfolio intended to demonstrate a few compelling and pedagogical examples of the intersection between physics, machine learning, and quantum information. Send me an email at orditm15@wfu.edu if you are interested in some other projects I am working on!

Many projects I have implemented in multiple languages, notably **Python**, **R**, and **JavaScript** (you can see all languages used for each project in the summarized cards in the master repository list!). All implementations are housed under the same repository and separated by directory therein. My hope is that anyone interested in the idea behind a project can dive in with minimal difficulty using their most comfortable language &ndash; while this intention was originally developed with physics students in mind, my choice of languages for each project ultimately comes down to appealing to the widest span of curious individuals from academics and researches to industry experts and hobbyists.

At the root of each repository is a **README documentation** file. It contains the "white paper", so-to-speak, detailing the project, its goals and objectives, strategies in implementation, and the results. I have attempted to include as many learning and pedagogical elements into these documents as possible. Refere to these for the necessary background and details of a project.
